---
title: "Running These Scenarios"
description: "Introduction R oshar, a world of storms and conflict, is made for sweeping epics and grand stories."
source: "Stormlight Scenarios.pdf"
chapter: "Introduction"
pages: "4-4"
---

## Running These Scenarios

Introduction R oshar, a world of storms and conflict, is made for sweeping epics and grand stories. It’s also a varied landscape of heartwarming romances, terrifying chases, intriguing mysteries, and more. Stormlight Scenarios includes seven short adventures set in the war-torn year between Brandon Sanderson’s novels Oathbringer and Rhythm of War. These scenarios have been optimized for four player characters (PCs) and provide stories in tier 1, tier 2, and tier 3. Each low-prep, self-contained scenario takes between two and three hours to play. They can be used as standalone stories or dropped into existing campaigns as side quests. Running These Scenarios To run these scenarios, you need the Stormlight Handbook and the Stormlight World Guide. Text in a box like this is meant to be read aloud or para­ phrased to the players, typically when their characters arrive at a location or when a specific situation is triggered (as described by the text). When a character’s name appears in bold, it indicates that you need their stat block for the scene. You can find all stat blocks in chapter 8 of the Stormlight World Guide. When an item appears in bold italics, it indicates that this item has special rules; if a PC obtains that item, be sure to provide the player a copy of those rules. These items are described in chapter 7 of the Stormlight Handbook. Low-Prep Games Each Stormlight scenario has been designed to facilitate a two- to three-hour session with just ten minutes of GM preparation. Each short scenario includes hooks, story beats, challenges, and rewards. In Your Own Campaigns Stormlight Scenarios can be run as several single-session stories, or these short adventures can be incorporated into your ongoing campaigns. For example, “A Spark in the Supplies” could be used as a travel interlude during the Stonewalkers adventure. Or, if your PCs are spending time in Urithiru between missions, you could use “Found in the Dark” or “The Stolen Masterpiece.” Tailoring Scenarios With a little extra preparation, these scenarios can be modified to better match your campaign or provide the right challenge for your players and their characters. Locations Each Stormlight scenario is tied to a thematic or narrative location, but you can modify any adventure to suit your campaign. Think about where your ongoing stories take place, and consider how you could modify a scenario to fit into a nearby location. Adventure Hooks If the two adventure hooks in each scenario don’t work for your PCs, you can modify the hooks or develop your own. For inspiration, consider the following: Review PC Goals. How could a PC achieve a milestone by completing this scenario? Consider the Source. How the characters learn about the story could modify the hook. What does this person or organization want? Can you use a non-player character (NPC) the PCs already know to deliver the hook? Build on Previous Adventures. If the PCs succeeded on a dangerous mission, they may be recruited to undertake another. Or if they failed someone in a previous adventure, maybe this scenario includes a way to settle a debt or make amends. Getting the Most Out of Endeavors Endeavors are one of the core scene types in the Cosmere RPG. They are a structured combination of skill tests and roleplay. Their flexibility lets you use them to represent single scenes as well as large montages. When running an endeavor with minimal preparation, define objectives and circumstances as usual, but encourage your players to get descriptive with their actions and share the narrative load. You can follow their lead and introduce changing circumstances based on their actions. For more guidance, see chapter 12 of the Stormlight Handbook. Introduction
